***Team Work Contract***

***Work distribution:***
Because we are a Master of Data Science team with diverse backgrounds and skillsets, there are many things to consider when distributing work. Firstly, how do we leverage the unique skills of each team member to create the best final project possible. Secondly, how do we ensure we don't delegate work solely based on team member strengths because, after all, we are in school to improve in all areas, including our weaknesses. With this in mind, we will distribute work at the beginning of our work sessions, with individual skillset, but also learning outcomes in mind. Whenever a group member takes on something unfamiliar to them, we will ensure to work on a video conference together to allow that teammate access to the group expert. This way, knowledge spillover can happen rapidly. 

***Project work hours:***
Given our current schedules, we typically work on projects everyday from 12:30pm - 5:30pm with a break for dinner, followed by work from 7:30pm - 11:00pm on all weekdays. If a group member has an important event or family commitment, we try and discuss that a day in advance. At that time, we decide if it makes sense for the remaining two group members to collaborate without the 3rd group member present, or if we should break for the day. Weekends are flexible, but with the understanding we can all expect to work a minimum of 15 hours on any given weekend. 

***Group meeting frequency:***
Group meetings occur daily.

***Agenda and Meeting minutes system:***
We have decided not to enact an Agenda and Meeting minutes system. While our group members have experience using Agenda and Meeting minute systems, we determined that it would not be effective in the Master of Data Science lab/project environment. This decision is primarily due to the high frequency of our meetings, and that we are focused on learning outcomes rather than pure delegation. Because we are novices in Data Science, we are constantly facing new problems to solve with new toolsets. Therefore, we are often surprised what aspects of a task take up alot of time and facilitate debate, and therefore, meeting minutes would rely too much on speculation. We prefer to have the flexibility in our meetings that comes with informality, so that we can discuss topics fully and effectively.  

***What will be the style of working?***
Because the Master of Data Science program has intentionally vague project outcomes, often we have little understanding of what we are trying to achieve and how things will come together, therefore, we wander through material and hope to get a big picture understanding at the end of our work. We try to work together as much as possible, so different perspectives are leveraged to help us determine the big picture sooner rather than later. Because we are learning, we accept that sometimes we might spend alot of energy going down the wrong path. While in a professional environment, this may be seen as a large waste of energy and resources, for us, its all part of the learning process. 

***Meeting protocols***
Our meetings will be largely informal. Given that two of the three of our group members have moved to a new city for this program, and that all of us are currently subject to lockdown restrictions, there is a newfound importance of socializing digitally together. While we may lose some work efficiency benefits by not having a rigid meeting structure, we benefit from improved mental health from having a more flexible meeting approach that allows for intermittent and off topic discussion, and doesn't focus on meeting deliverables over learning outcomes. 

***Work quality***
All team members expect a high level of work from themselves and their teammates. These expectations have been established early on in the program. All of us have identified a desire to learn with a unyielding consideration of real life application. With this in mind, the team agrees to put in extra work to make our projects applicable to real world situations, rather than focus solely on grade outcomes. If there is debate regarding work quality due to out of program obligations, the team has adopted a compassionate approach, wherein work does not have to be distributed completely equally at all times. The most important thing is that core learning outcomes are achieved. This is how real teams function, life events sometimes cannot be anticipated and planned around, and a team always helps its members when they need it most. With this in mind, we will strive to complete work early whenever possible, as this enables the team greater flexibility to respond to life events.  

***Availability***
Given the whole world is adopting a more flexible work approach due to COVID-19, we feel the perceived necessity of a rigid attendance system and the stigma applied to wanting a flexible work environment is changing. Still, some personality types demand routine to function effectively. Fortunately, all three team members have endorsed a flexible working system and have personalities that are conducive to it. This flexible system is also highly effective given the Master of Data Science environment. All of us have invested considerable money and time into the program, and therefore, we are all capable of keeping ourselves accountable in the program. Also, due to the varying but high demands of the program, we all are commiting 60-80 hours to the program a week. This is considerably more hours than most people work or go to school. Therefore, any rigid sysem of attendance would ensure we would miss important family interactions that should be prioritized. 


